---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Dream #1'
author:
  display_name: Nathan
  email: ndemick@gmail.com
date: 2005-07-17 18:34:32.000000000 -04:00
comments:
- author: Laura
  content: I have awesome braking skills, it's true.
- author: chalupa
  content: Jump the Shark.....so is this gonna be reminiscent of Happy Days?
- author: Laura
  content: Don't even get me started on The X-Files.  I can't believe you're actually
    watching the badness that is season 9.  Not even I, who was once a rapid X-Files
    fan, feel the need to subject myself to that.
- author: adam
  content: "I stopped watching when Mulder became Jesus.<br>\r\nWhat season was that,
    8?"
- author: Laura
  content: "AHAHAHAHA.\r\n<Br><br>\r\nActually that was season seven.\r\n<Br><br>\r\nI'd
    post a picture of Mulder being crucified, but it would be too huge for this little
    comment box, so click <a href=\"http://xfphotos.fredfarm.com/season7/amorfati/amorfati331.jpg\">here</a>
    instead."
- author: Laura
  content: whoops, I didn't make that pop.  Click "open link in new window."
- author: adam
  content: "wasn't season 7 the same season that had Hollywood A.D.<p>\r\n<b>SNIPER
    ZOMBIES!!!</b>"
- author: Laura
  content: 'Yes.  David Duchovny''s most self-indulgent piece of crud ever.  Here''s
    a hint:  WHEN YOU''RE OUT OF IDEAS, DON''T LET THE ACTORS WRITE THEIR OWN EPISODES
    AND INVITE THEIR WIVES AND FRIENDS TO GUEST STAR.'
- author: Phany
  content: You are the best. Thank you http://www.bignews.com
---
My dream was lame last night.

My sister was driving some big boat of a car, like those old Chevrolets, and I
was a passenger in said car. The unfortunate thing was that apparently we were
driving after a heavy snow, because the roads were all covered in ice and/or
packed snow. As we arrived at an intersection, another car came barreling in
from the right. However, through quick brake action, we managed to not hit it.
After the incident, we continued on, but I noticed the car we almost hit was
following us, and happened to be a police car. The lightbar wasn't on, but
Laura pulled over to let the cop pass us. Of course, the cop pulls over behind
us, and I immediately ran out to sweet-talk the (female) officer, who held us
no ill will. And that was it!

I'm getting closer to finishing We Love Katamari (recently found out that's the
official English title), and I'm being constantly impressed, but for some reason
it's difficult for me to continue playing. I finished the first one in about a
day, but the second is taking longer. Maybe the novelty of rolling has worn off.

Hey, know what's a real kick to the head? Today is a national holiday in Japan
(_umi no hi_, or Sea Day! if you care), yet Mondays are part of my normal
"weekend." This means that while everyone else gets this day off, I get nothing
off. I still have to work five days next week. Hey, employer? This is the kind
of stuff that makes people not want to work for you. Hey, Japan? Maybe you
should have national holidays on some other days too! My Tuesday-Saturday
schedule started in April; before that I got my national holiday Mondays off
too, and my co-worker Dave got screwed. Poop on Chambers' English School, poop I say!

EDIT: I watched X-Files episode 9x13 "Improbable" last night, and this is what
I have to say: "LAME!" I've been viewing season nine recently because I never
actually finished watching the series, and boredom + need for a feeling of
completion prompted me to download the last season. I re-watched seasons 7-8
earlier this year, because a co-worker had them. Let me say that Scully +
Doggett was cool, but Doggett + Reyes equals teh crap. Reyes' character is
totally uninteresting, and the addition of said character further alienates
(ha, ha) viewers who had grown attached to the original characters. Anyway,
episode 9x13 was probably the most worthless episode I've watched yet, even
more worthless than the one where Reyes was trapped in the phantom hospital.
Ughh, it seems very appropriate that one of the next episodes is named
[Jump the Shark](http://www.everything2.com/index.pl?node_id=590634).

EDIT #2: I can't believe that nobody made any comments about those
[curry snacks](/images/random/indo-curry-snacks.jpg). It's like Satan and his
evil bride on a bag of chips.
