---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Saturday
author:
  display_name: Nathan
  login: admin
  email: ndemick@gmail.com
  url: ''
author_login: admin
author_email: ndemick@gmail.com
wordpress_id: 15
wordpress_url: http://www.bitter-gamer.com/?p=8
date: '2005-03-12 14:58:23 -0500'
date_gmt: '2005-03-12 05:58:23 -0500'
categories:
- japan
tags: []
comments:
- id: 22
  author: ad@m
  author_email: djinfx@gmail.com
  author_url: http://www.unfulfilling.com/infx/
  date: '2005-03-13 10:59:14 -0500'
  date_gmt: '2005-03-13 01:59:14 -0500'
  content: |-
    man i need me some ridiculous amounts of money.
    boy howdy.
---
Usually once a month I make a sojourn down to one of Utsunomiya's hospitals to 
"teach" a doctor there. Basically we blab for a while, then he reads me a 
newspaper article or composition he wrote. I then help him correct his paper or 
understand some difficult bits of the article. In return, I get paid a 
ridiculous amount of money.

So, I'm off to spend some of that money on videogames.

* [The river I ride along to get to the hospital](/images/more_japan/river.jpg)
* [A sign along the river](/images/more_japan/river_sign.jpg) (I'm sure you can guess the meaning without reading the Japanese)
* [A house I passed on the way](/images/more_japan/dilapadated_house.jpg)
* [A view of Chambers' English School](/images/more_japan/ces.jpg)

(Quick note: Sorry, these images are still pretty large. The photo program I use 
[iPhoto] doesn't compress images very well. Even at 500x375, they are still over 
100k in size. I need to get a better program.)

EDIT: I grabbed Metal Gear Solid 3 and Final Fantasy X International. MGS3 will 
be my test. If I can enjoy the game even though it's entirely in Japanese, then 
I'll buy the Japanese version of Final Fantasy 12. Right now I'm translating 
bits of the manual; learning lots of interesting words, but it gets kinda 
tedious after a while. FFX International is just one of those games it's cool to 
have. Same old story, but lots of added junk, plus the dialogue is all in 
English. It even warns you of that fact on the back of the box.
