---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Gish
author:
  display_name: Nathan
  login: admin
  email: ndemick@gmail.com
  url: ''
author_login: admin
author_email: ndemick@gmail.com
wordpress_id: 14
wordpress_url: http://www.bitter-gamer.com/?p=6
date: '2005-03-11 11:09:59 -0500'
date_gmt: '2005-03-11 02:09:59 -0500'
categories:
- games
tags: []
comments:
- id: 20
  author: ad@m
  author_email: djinfx@gmail.com
  author_url: http://www.unfulfilling.com/infx/
  date: '2005-03-11 11:35:21 -0500'
  date_gmt: '2005-03-11 02:35:21 -0500'
  content: |-
    Butr0s: I posted a review of Gish
    glowenfone: cool
    glowenfone: i like that game
    Butr0s: yeah I should probably buy the full version
    glowenfone: but i apparently suck at puzzle games like that now
    glowenfone: i could always try and find a torrent :X
    Butr0s: you can steal from large corporations
    glowenfone: but not from indie gamers
    Butr0s: but if you steal from 2 guys, you're going to hell
    Butr0s: HELL
    Butr0s: YES
- id: 21
  author: Tyler
  author_email: tylerbren@gmail.com
  author_url: http://
  date: '2005-03-12 07:57:47 -0500'
  date_gmt: '2005-03-11 22:57:47 -0500'
  content: i require moderation~
---
Finally after getting an internet connection, I was able to download a demo of 
that indie game, [Gish](http://www.chroniclogic.com/gish.htm). Figured I'd post 
a bit o' my reactions here.

Our story so far: Gish and his lady friend Brea are out walking around one day, 
when all of a sudden a mysterious hand reaches out of the sewers and grabs the 
girl. Gish must (of course) rescue the girlfriend while trying not to die. The 
problem? Gish is a ball of tar. Actually, the real problem is trying to explain 
how a sentient ball of tar managed to get a girlfriend, but I guess that's 
beyond the scope of this game.

Being tarrish and ball-shaped, Gish moves a bit more sluggishly than most video 
game heros. With no legs, momentum plays a big factor in play control. 
Navigating his two-dimensional world sometimes takes a bit of patience. To help 
you along, Gish has four different abilities: Sticky, Slick, Heavy, and Expand. 
Sticky does like it says, allowing Gish to roll up walls and along ceilings. 
Slick lets him slide through narrow spaces, while Heavy increases Gish's weight 
in order to crush walls and baddies. Expand will propel Gish a short distance 
into the air; get the timing right and you can bounce him like a rubber ball.

Some of Chronic Logic's earlier projects are intensely physics-based, and this 
shows when playing Gish. In fact, many other reviews I've read wax on and on 
about the physics of the game. Indeed, Gish is very realistic (perhaps too 
realistic) dealing with interaction in the game world. Tilting bridges and rope 
platforms move exactly how you might expect. Put too much weight on a rope and 
it will snap, possibly plunging Gish into lava or making it difficult to proceed 
in the level. When first playing the game, control is a bit frustrating, but as 
the game progresses, the entire system feels quite intuitive.

Besides the standard levels, Gish also includes other gameplay modes, such as 
Collection (wherein you collect coins...uhh I mean pieces of amber) and Versus 
(wherein you push another Gish-like creature off a ledge). The basic premise of 
the game is interesting enough, and these added modes are like icing on the 
cake. For only $20, it's hard to go wrong.
