---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Review: Metroid Prime: Hunters'
author:
  display_name: Nathan
  email: ndemick@gmail.com
date: 2006-08-30 13:03:00.000000000 -04:00
comments: []
---
One of the problems with portable consoles in the past has been the inability to rent games for them. Whereas the common gamer could try out any game for his Playstation or Nintendo 64, he had to buy his Game Boy Advance games on pure faith &mdash; faith in his videogame reviewer of choice. At least for me, this usually meant that I only bought first-party games for my (Nintendo) portables, since Nintendo's quality of development was (and still is) so high. Of course, I'd sometimes stray from the path I'd voluntarily chosen, but more than likely I'd be disappointed with my purchase. 
<br /><br />
With the power and game quality of newer portable consoles like the Playstation Portable and Nintendo DS, this is starting to change. The game rental service I recently subscribed to, Gamefly, rents games for both these portable systems. This means that I can try out many of the games that looked moderately interesting in the past, but not interesting enough to shell out $35 for. One such game that was on my list was <em>Metroid Prime: Hunters</em>. 
<br /><br />
Even though I had heard that the play control for this iteration of <em>Metroid</em> was far superior to its' predecessor, I didn't feel compelled in the slightest to try it. If you're unfamiliar with my opinion of the first <em>Metroid Prime</em>, feel free to <a href="/archives/metroid_prime.html">take a look</a>. The gist of my problem was this: the control system was horrible, and wasn't able to be changed. Therefore, I didn't have high hopes for any sequels.
<br /><br />
<em>Hunters</em>, however, surprised me. Not only was the default control system totally intuitive, but it also could be changed: both my points against the first <em>Prime</em> were removed instantly. 
The default system works by using the D-pad to control the horizontal/vertical movement of the player, while moving the stylus on the touch screen controls the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flight_dynamics">pitch and yaw</a> (i.e. causes the player to look around). The L trigger fires the selected weapon, while tapping the touch screen twice causes the player to jump. The optional system substitutes the A, B, X and Y buttons for the stylus &mdash; A turns you right, X looks up, etc., while the R trigger is used to jump. Since the default control style is very similar to a standard PC FPS setup (with keyboard and mouse), I was able to feel comfortable very quickly.
<br /><br />
<em>Hunters</em> almost feels too much like a traditional PC FPS in many ways. It has a strong online component, while the single player game feels stunted and tacked on. In my old age, I don't feel too strongly about competing against random people over the internet; inevitably, they're all much better than me, since I don't take the time to become extremely good at one game anymore. Therefore my playing was mostly limited to the single player game. 
<br /><br />
The multiplayer interface is well-thought out, allowing the use of Nintendo's infamous "<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friend_codes#Friend_codes">Friend Codes</a>." In addition, players can play random games against people with a similar ranking. This "deathmatch" mode allows each player to play as one of many different bounty hunter characters, and shoot the hell out of each other. Great if you like that sort of thing, but it gets old rather fast.
<br /><br />
The single player game is all about Samus Aran, the heroine in the <em>Metroid</em> series, searching through various planets for a "super power," some arcane, alien artifact, the purpose of which is unknown. We do know, however, that if nasties get hold of it, bad things can happen. That's why Samus has to find this power first. To obtain it, she must first collect a number of alien crystals, which will apparently unlock some sort of mystic portal that leads to the power. These crystals have been hidden away by the long-defunct alien race, and are only accessible through their own teleporters, which are activated by three other alien alien artifacts. If this is starting to sound a bit tedious to you, then you'd be correct. Samus must travel to four different locations to find these crystals, along with the various other power-ups and artifacts you've come to expect from the <em>Metroid</em> series. 
<br /><br />
The main problem with the single-player game in <em>Hunters</em> is what I mentioned in the previous paragraph: tediousness. The first time through each area is interesting, but the inane "collection" of pointless game objects (the alien crystals) requires returning multiple times, usually after a special weapon is obtained. Forcing the player to return to an area he has already played is bad design and (in this era of almost limitless data capacity for games) simply lazy. <em>Super Metroid</em> for the SNES, the game by which all others in the series are judged, usually didn't require the forced revisiting of an area. It was up to the player to decide whether or not he wanted to explore. Basically, in this respect, <em>Hunters</em> is the worst possible combination of linearity and "exploration"-based game design. 
<br /><br />
As a result of this, I quit playing about half-way through. The game simply wasn't challenging or fun enough for me to want to continue. Finishing would have been merely an exercise in patience, and when I have a long list of other games waiting to be sent to me, it's hard to justify playing through a rather boring game. Does this illustrate one of my innate character flaws? The inability to finish what I start? Personally, I think it's probably silly to assign such importance to finishing a videogame, and perhaps can actually chalk this up as a victory over OCD behavior! Hey, Nintendo! Give me a reason to catch 'em all!