---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Review: Super Mario Galaxy (Wii)'
author:
  display_name: Nathan
  login: admin
  email: ndemick@gmail.com
  url: ''
author_login: admin
author_email: ndemick@gmail.com
wordpress_id: 78
wordpress_url: http://www.bitter-gamer.com/2007/11/26/review-super-mario-galaxy-wii/
date: '2007-11-26 14:03:51 -0500'
date_gmt: '2007-11-26 18:03:51 -0500'
categories:
- games
tags: []
comments: []
---
Super Mario Galaxy had a lot to live up to. For one, it had to be good enough 
not to sully the illustrious name of Mario with which it had been entrusted. For 
another, it had to utilize the Wii's unique control system in such a way as to 
not be boring or derivative. Finally, in an age when a lot of high-profile, big 
budget games get crammed with so much _stuff_ as to make them pointless 
to play, Mario Galaxy had to be, well, fun.

As an ironic bonus, Galaxy's predecessor, Super Mario Sunshine, was rather 
sub-par, being in effect a glorified rehash of the genre-busting Mario 64. This 
meant that, basically, Galaxy just had to be better than Sunshine for it to be 
well received. Fortunately, I can tell you now that yes, Galaxy not only is 
better than Sunshine, but is also at the very least the best game I've played 
this year.

For the sake of brevity, I'll assume familiarity with most of the ideas behind 
modern Mario games, and plunge straight into the use of the Wii remote and 
nunchuk to control our portly protagonist. As may be expected, a nunchuk is 
required to play, and the analog stick on same is what controls Mario's 
direction. The new elements in control revolve, of course, around the Wii 
remote. Shaking the remote makes Mario do a spin attack, while pointing it at 
the screen allows the player to collect and shoot "star bits." If these were the 
only ways that the Wii remote was featured in the game, I would have been 
disappointed &mdash; but fortunately, there are many more interesting uses for 
it. For instance, some levels have Mario surfing on a stingray, where he is 
moved left and right by twists of the remote. Other areas place Mario in a 
bubble, where the remote is used to push him around. Still others make him 
balance on top of a giant ball, and the remote is used like a joystick to move 
Mario around. In a nutshell, there are many instances where it is used, and 
surprisingly, none of them feel particularly forced. The designers had to 
stretch their minds a bit in order to bring these Wii-specific concepts to the 
game, but I think they all work well.

The major concern of mine regarding Galaxy was the camera. Mario Sunshine's 
camera was notoriously bad: often re-positioning itself after you had patiently 
aligned it just the way you wanted for a certain jump. Camera control in Galaxy 
is almost a non-issue. Levels in Galaxy are much more linear than the more 
open-ended levels in Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine, which means that the 
programmers could place the camera in positions optimal for each situation. Of 
course, the player also has control of the camera, using the 'C' button on the 
'chuck to center the view behind Mario (almost like Z-targeting in the Zelda 
series) or using the D-pad on the remote to offset the view to the left or 
right. However, I rarely found myself even wanting to move the camera, which is 
obviously a good thing. The player should never have to worry about positioning 
their view &ndash; it detracts in a negative way from the gameplay. The only 
time I felt mild frustration with the camera was in some underwater areas.

The fact that the camera works so well is even more amazing considering the 
theme that the level designers explore throughout the game: gravity. Mario runs 
on small planets from which he can literally jump out of orbit. He sticks to 
walls, turns upside down, and goes through so many different twists and turns 
that his guts are probably tied in knots by now.

If you were turned off by the small number of levels in Mario Sunshine, be 
prepared to get blown away by the massive number of them in Galaxy. Even after 
beating the game, there were some levels that I _had not played at all_. These 
were not hidden levels, either, but those unlocked during the normal course of 
gameplay. Basically, even though levels are more linear, the length and variety 
of the game does not suffer because of it. Certain basic level themes return, 
such as a lava world and ice world, but there are many other new, interesting 
themes, mostly based around a space motif.

Tributes to old Mario games abound, yet are not heavy handed. Some old enemies return, but alongside a host of new. Galaxy is all that a gamer could ask for in a next-generation sequel: it takes inspiration from, but is not totally derivative of, it's predecessors. If you own a Wii, this is a must-buy. My purchase of a Wii for this game was completely justified.
